add new kb for bitbucket-jenkins relation (#1241)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-ci/bitbucket-triggering-events-to-jenkins.md

---
tags:
  - Bitbucket
  - Jenkins
  - webhooks
description: How to trigger events from the Bitbucket server to a Jenkins instance
---
# Triggering events from Bitbucket to Jenkins

This guide walks you through connecting your Bitbucket source code manager (SCM) with Jenkins, a CI/CD environment, through the use of **webhooks**. By connecting Bitbucket with Jenkins, you are able to customize jobs, such as your Semgrep job, based on push or pull events from Bitbucket.

## Defining a Bitbucket webhook 
One way to connect Bitbucket (Cloud or Server) to a Jenkins instance is defining a Bitbucket webhook.
It allows you to trigger builds on Bitbucket's push and pull requests events.

:::info Prerequisites
* You must install the [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Bitbucket Push and Pull Request](https://plugins.jenkins.io/bitbucket-push-and-pull-request/) plugin on your the Jenkins server. This method requires that your Jenkins instance is compatible with this plugin.

> * Jenkins and Bitbucket must be visible to each other. It means Bitbucket will invoke Jenkins after a push or pull request event and Jenkins will send the result/comments to Bitbucket.

Reviewer: In this line, you wrote:
>... Bitbucket will invoke Jenkins after a push or pull ...

The wording implies that this is the effect that happens AFTER the user sets up the webhook. So it's not actually something the user has to do beforehand? If so, can we remove the bullet?

Author: Yes, we can remove the bullet.

---
tags:
  - Bitbucket
  - Jenkins
  - webhooks
description: How to trigger events from the Bitbucket server to a Jenkins instance
---
# Triggering events from Bitbucket to Jenkins

> ## Motivation

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
Think it's fine to remove this :)

> A common scenario for many organizations is having:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide walks you through connecting your Bitbucket source code manager (SCM) with Jenkins, a CI/CD environment, through the use of **webhooks**. By connecting Bitbucket with Jenkins, you are able to customize jobs, such as your Semgrep job, based on push or pull events from Bitbucket.
```

- Trimmed some words and applied the [inverted pyramid](https://www.nngroup.com/articles/inverted-pyramid/).
- This method supports all Bitbucket plans, so there's no need to specify.

> * Bitbucket (Cloud or Server) as Source Code Management system to manage source code repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> * Jenkins as CI/CD platform to run pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> So, it is crucial to have some kind of links between the two platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Defining a Bitbucket webhook 
One way to connect Bitbucket (Cloud or Server) to a Jenkins instance is defining a Bitbucket webhook.

> It will allow us to trigger builds on Bitbucket's push and pull requests events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It allows you to trigger builds on Bitbucket's push and pull requests events.
```

> There are two requirements to comply:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info Prerequisites
```
We can make a callout box.

> * Installing the plugin ["Bitbucket Push and Pull Request"](https://plugins.jenkins.io/bitbucket-push-and-pull-request/) on the Jenkins server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You must install the plugin [<i class="fas fa-external-link fa-xs"></i> Bitbucket Push and Pull Request](https://plugins.jenkins.io/bitbucket-push-and-pull-request/) on the Jenkins server.
```

We know have little icons that serve as signposts when users skim the docs! It looks like this on live: 

![2023-11-09_02-01-52](https://github.com/semgrep/semgrep-docs/assets/20766840/d36b0186-f7d5-4cce-a8b9-fd577718858d)

> * Having network visibility between the two platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Network visibility between the two platforms.
:::
```
What does network visibility mean? Are there permissions, IP addresses, etc. that need to be configured?

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Read the plugin documentation to review it is compatible with your Jenkins instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> The steps to setup the webhook are the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The steps to set up the webhook are the following:
```

> * For a specific Bitbucket repository click on **Repository Settings**->**Webhooks**->**Add Webhook**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* From your Bitbucket repository click on **Repository Settings > Webhooks > Add Webhook**
```

> ![image info](/img/kb/ci-bitbucket-defining-webhook.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A Bitbucket repository's Webhooks page](/img/kb/ci-bitbucket-defining-webhook.png)
```

> * Put a name to the webhook.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter a **Title** for your webhook.
```
(Following what I see in the screenshot.)

> * Specify the URL. It must be `https://<YOUR_JENKINS_SERVER>/bitbucket-hook/`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Specify the URL. It must follow the pattern: `https://<YOUR_JENKINS_SERVER>/bitbucket-hook/`
```

> * Select Triggers for “Push” and “Pull requests Created and Updated”.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Select the following **Triggers:** 
    1. In the **Repository** section, select **Push**.
    1. In the **Pull request** section, select **Created** and **Updated**.
```

> ![image info](/img/kb/ci-bitbucket-select-triggers.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![Webhook set up page](/img/kb/ci-bitbucket-select-triggers.png)
```

> Now the webhook is set on the Bitbucket side. You can use it from your Jenkins instance.

Reviewer: How do users use it from the Jenkins instance?

Author: There will be a KB-second part and KB-third part explaining Jenkins side.

Reviewer: Got it. Okay! I'm resolving this. :)
